src/events/2024-2025/demos/interim-showcase/README.md, before:

# Interim Showcase

NOTE: THIS IS FROM LAST YEAR - ONLY USE AS A REFERENCE FOR WHAT THE EVENT WILL LOOK LIKE => WILL UPDATE WITH NEW DETAILS AS WE GET CLOSER TO THE DATE

## 13 February 2025

### Time

6PM - 8PM

### Location

Engineering Atrium

### Time per team

7 minutes for your presentation, 3 minutes for Q&A

### Dress code

Business casual, try to coordinate with your team for a professional cohesive look

### Key Elements

#### Demonstration (Video or Live Encouraged)

- Provide a compelling demonstration of the product through a pre-recorded video or a live walkthrough to showcase its functionality.
- If you are not in a state where a demo is possible / all the features can’t be shown feel free to add to the Figma Designs to your slides.

#### Brand Identity (Final Name & Logo)

- Present the finalized product name, slogan and logo to establish a strong brand presence.
- Doesn’t need to be a formal slide but should be apparent on the slide deck/ introduction.

#### Technical Knowledge (No Code Submission, But Understand the Codebase)

- While no code submission is required, be prepared to explain the architecture, technology stack, and key technical decisions.

#### Problem Statement (Why This Matters & Target Audience)

- Clearly define the problem your product solves, why it’s important, and who the primary users are.

#### Solution

- How you are solving the problem and why people would be willing to pay for your solution

#### Go-To-Market Strategy & Roadmap

- Give some indication of how large the target market is (Could do TAM, SAM, SOM market sizing)
- Outline how you plan to attract users, the development timeline, key milestones, and when revenue generation will begin.

#### Revenue Model (How You Make Money)

- Explain the business model, pricing strategy, and revenue streams.

#### Competitive Analysis (Market Landscape & Why You’re Better)

- Compare your solution to existing competitors, highlighting your unique advantages through a competitive matrix.

#### (Required but not presented) Tech Stack Documents

1. A document containing a list of every technology your team has been using / plan to use, with a short paragraph for each technology that answers the following questions:

   - What is it being used for?
   - How will it fit with the rest of the tech stack?
   - How does it stack up to its alternatives (pros/cons)?
   - What experience does your team have with it / what difficulty has your team been having with it?

2. A near final diagram of how all of your technologies link together (how does information move between technologies?)

**NOTE:** Due to Earth's Echo being a video game made with Unity, they are exempt from these requirements, although please still come well informed and prepared to answer questions on what tools you used in Unity to create the different components of the game.

#### (Optional) Team Composition & Skills

- Provide an overview of your team, their expertise, and how their skills contribute to the success of the project.

### [Example Pitch Presentation](https://docs.google.com/file/d/1P3JH9HGTV9xSUeaNL65b_6SZ6GduVNrC/edit?filetype=mspresentation)

### EMERGENCY BACKUP

- In case of technical issues, send your presentation to VP Internal (Maheen) by noon Feb 13

### Keys to Success

- Understand your audience:
  - What might their backgrounds be? Are there any jargon I am using?
  - What do they know about my project? What message/impact do I hope to leave them with?
- Complete your slide deck
- Practice your 7 minute pitch -- and make sure to consider the length of your demo video (if you choose to have one)
- Complete your demo video
- Have your tech stack and architecture solidified

### Tips

- Have 2-3 designated presenters for your team
- No need to show/explain code live, but be ready to answer questions about your tech stack, and how you implemented specific features of your project.

Commit message:

Revise Interim Showcase README with updated details
Updated the README for the Interim Showcase with new event details, including date, location, presentation guidelines, and additional instructions for teams.

src/events/2024-2025/demos/interim-showcase/README.md, after:

# Interim Showcase

## 12 February 2026

The Interim Showcase is your second opportunity to clearly communicate what you’re building, why it matters, and why your solution stands out to industry guests, and for the first time this semester, the general public. In a concise 7-minute pitch, we’re looking for a strong demo, a clear problem and target audience, an explanation of how your solution works, and confidence in both the technical and business aspects. By the end, the audience should understand your product’s vision, value, and potential impact.

### Time

6PM - 8PM

### Location

ENG 03

### Time per team

Hard cutoff at 15mins

Target 7 minutes for your presentation, 3 minutes for Q&A (10 minutes total - remember that your pitch going for much longer than the other teams can make it feel less focused and polished in comparison.)

### Dress code

Business casual, try to coordinate with your team for a professional cohesive look

### Key Elements

#### Demonstration (Video or Live Encouraged)

- Provide a compelling demonstration of the product through a pre-recorded video or a live walkthrough to showcase its functionality.
- If you are not in a state where a demo is possible / all the features can’t be shown feel free to add to the Figma Designs to your slides.

#### Brand Identity (Final Name & Logo)

- Present the finalized product name, slogan and logo to establish a strong brand presence.
- Doesn’t need to be a formal slide but should be apparent on the slide deck/ introduction.

#### Technical Knowledge (No Code Submission, But Understand the Codebase)

- While no code submission is required, be prepared to explain the architecture, technology stack, and key technical decisions.

#### Problem Statement (Why This Matters & Target Audience)

- Clearly define the problem your product solves, why it’s important, and who the primary users are.

#### Solution

- How you are solving the problem and why people would be willing to pay for your solution
   - If you’re introducing a new or unique workflow or technology, talk about it and briefly discuss how it's implemented.

#### Go-To-Market Strategy & Roadmap

- Give some indication of how large the target market is (Could do TAM, SAM, SOM market sizing)
- Outline how you plan to attract users, the development timeline, key milestones, and when revenue generation will begin.

#### Revenue Model (How You Make Money)

- Explain the business model, pricing strategy, and revenue streams.

#### Competitive Analysis (Market Landscape & Why You’re Better)

- Compare your solution to existing competitors, highlighting your unique advantages through a competitive matrix.

#### (Optional) Team Composition & Skills

- Provide an overview of your team, their expertise, and how their skills contribute to the success of the project.

### [Example Pitch Presentation](https://docs.google.com/file/d/1P3JH9HGTV9xSUeaNL65b_6SZ6GduVNrC/edit?filetype=mspresentation)

### EMERGENCY BACKUP

- In case of technical issues, send your presentation to VP Internal (Maheen) by noon Feb 13

### Keys to Success

- Understand your audience:
  - What might their backgrounds be? Are there any jargon I am using?
  - What do they know about my project? What message/impact do I hope to leave them with?
- Complete your slide deck
- Practice your 7 minute pitch -- and make sure to consider the length of your demo video (if you choose to have one)
- Complete your demo video
- Have your tech stack and architecture solidified

### Tips

- Have 2-3 designated presenters for your team
- No need to show/explain code live, but be ready to answer questions about your tech stack, and how you implemented specific features of your project.
